From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Ansul minutes, a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number two
25 reported live Thursday, July 29th, 2010.
Support for Hanselman it's just
provided by Tellerik. Our AB
controls the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com.
In this episode, Scott talks
about in hibernate with Jason
Denton. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman, and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
we're talking today about an
hibernate with author Jason Dentler.
He's an author of a
book called an hibernate free
cookbook from PAC publishing. He'll
be out later this year.
And one of the nice
things about this book is
that PAC publishing will be
donating a portion of the
revenue from the N hibernate
three cookbook back to the
open source project. So this
is great. Thanks Jason, for
sitting down and chat with
me today. Hi Scott. It's
great to be here. So
I did a couple of
shows recently about entity framework,
and I've been thinking about
entity framework. This is the
Microsoft a way to talk
to a database and I
haven't done a show on,
in hibernate, and I want
to make sure that everybody
gets, gets heard and, you
know, and hibernate. It's been
one of those things where
I've kind of like, I've
heard about it a lot
and I've danced around it.
I've orbited a little bit
on a couple of small
projects, but I'm just not
like hardcore. I don't quite
get it. So can you
tell me what is an
hibernate? You know, what, what's
the heritage? Where did it
come from? Well, in hibernate
is an object relational mapper
framework. It started as a
Java project called hibernate back
in. Wow. So it's like
10 years old is mature
around 2003 or so some
guys got together and started
putting it over to.net. From
there, we added generics with
version two, brought up feature
parody along with hibernate three.
And then here we are
today at version three, significant
that it came from Java.
Like, is that, is that
meaningful in some way? Like,
does it feel like Java
or does it have Java
ish stuff in it or
is it just that the
original idea name came from
Java? Well, no, there's actually,
some of the vocabulary is
taken straight from Java, our
entity mappings, you know, we
use the term maps instead
of dictionary in.net it's dictionary
in Java it's maps. Oh,
I see. Also in the
mapping we use the term
extents, which is basically subclasses
of class. So you said
object relational mapper. So this
is something that takes my
objects and like, if I
have a person object and
it has first name and
last name and it describes
what it's going to take
to persist that into a
relational database, hence object relational
mapper. Right, right. Is this
a bunch of DLLs that
I download? Is this a
program? And you're like, how
do I get started with,
with this? How do I
sit down and start using
this? How do I persist
my person? Okay. Well, let
me just take you through
the whole process. First of
all, you're going to go
and download our assemblies. We're
hosted on, SourceForge just Google
for in hibernate SourceForge and
take you right there. Download
the in hibernate three alpha
one. It's rock solid. You
know, it's still alpha, but
it's rock solid. People are
using it in production already.
Wow, that's cool. Yeah. There's
going to be a couple
of DLLs in there. You'll
have in hibernate dot DLL,
that's sort of the in
hibernate core from there you
will have in hibernate bytecode
castle. That DLL, that is
our proxy framework. We support
castle proxies when food proxies
and spring proxies proxies is
just a term. It's basically
what we use to support
Lacy loading. We're going to
take your class and in
runtime, inherit from it and
add on all of our
lazy loading support on top
of that on top of
it. Okay. So does this
mean if I have a
person and that person has
an address, I could have
that person object, I'm going
to assume a C sharp
or VP programmer. And I
say person P and then
I say P dot address.
And when you say lazy
loading, it's the moment when
I access address that it
will go to the database.
Is that what you mean
by that? That's exactly right.
Yes. See, and then the
product that dynamic proxy is
the thing that makes that
possible. Well, my person object
look all like database and
in hibernating or will it
just look like public class
person? No, actually that's one
of the core design principles
in hibernate. We believe very
strongly in code first. Pocos
plain old CLR objects. Don't
have to add attributes. You
don't have to add any
of this sort of persistence
stuff. It's complete persistence ignorance.
So does this mean that
I can take an existing
object that maybe I'm already
working on and I can
persist it? Or do you
usually design your objects explicitly
for going into the database?
Personally, I designed my whole
persistence model first, all of
the classes that don't want
to persist. And then I
build on top of that,
but there's, you know, countless
ways to go through that
whole process. Yes. You could
take an existing class and
persistent later, So I've got
your DLLs and I add
references to them. And then
what? Well, you're Going to
first design your pocos. So
you'll build your person class.
You'll build your OB your
address class. You will map
from one to the other.
I'm sorry. He will make
a reference from one to
the other. Then you'll start
building your mappings within hibernate.
The default supported mapping is
XML. So you will create
an XML file person dot
HBM dot XML, and you
will build this whole XML
mapping. It's real easy. We
ship XML schema that you
can drop into your solution.
So that visual studio will
give you full intelligence when
you're building your, your XML.
And then you just set
that as an embedded resource
in your assembly. Ah, so
the XML file that tells
me where, what part of
the object goes in, what
part of the database is
embedded inside the DLL? So
it's not losing lying around
it's effectively code just happens
to look like XML, right?
That's exactly right. Is that
the only way to make
a mapping? Cause I've seen
some of those files and
they look kind of scary.
Yeah. There's lots of different
ways. That's the only way
that's built into in hibernate
core. We also have fluent
in hibernate. Basically you build
it with sort of a
fluent syntax with generics and
Lambdas and that sort of
stuff, and that, you know,
that's code. So you get
full IntelliSense there. So fluent
means kind of like writing
a sentence, like, you know,
map the person object to
the such and such table.
And you're like, write it
all out. Like you're writing
C sharp as if it
were a declaration. Yes, that's
exactly right. Okay. And that's
something that's an add on
fluent and hibernate I can
add on, but it gives
me all the same kind
of functionality. It's just, I
don't have to deal with
XML, Right? To add on
fluid in hibernate, you go
to the fluent in hibernate
project, download their DLL and
reference it. And then from
there you just create a
class map, which is a,
just another poco. Okay. So
I've done my mapping. I've
added my references. How do
I talk? How do I
connect to the database? Where's
my connection string live. There's
a couple of different ways
you can do configuration within
hibernate. Also you can put
it in your app dot
config as its own section.
So you'll actually have a
hibernate dash configuration section in
your app dot config. You
can store it separately in
an XML file. The default
is hibernate dot CFG dot
XML. You can change that
if you like. We also
have sort of a fluent,
not really fluent. We call
it location code syntax for
configuring in hibernate. And the
influence in hibernate also has
a fluent syntax for configuring
it hibernate. So you'll set
your connection string in your
app dot config. From there,
you'll build a, an in
hibernate configuration object. So you'll
just new up in hibernate
dot CFG dot configuration. You'll
call dot configure. Now you've
got a built configuration object.
It's pulled in all of
your mappings. It's loaded those
up. It's reflected on your
model and it's ready to
go from there. You call.build
session factory, and now you've
got a session factory that's
sort of the one Singleton
entry point into in hibernate
factory per application. Okay. And
the session in hibernate usually
used for web applications or
is it just that I
usually see it for web
applications. Cause I see when
someone starts a request, they
start a session. And then
when this request ends, they
end the session, Right? You
can use in hibernate for
any type of application. One
of the most common scenarios
is web applications, web forms,
NBC, you name it. And
what you just talked about
was session per request, where
you start a session. When
the request begins, you close
the session when the request
ends, But with it, but
a session is not a
connection. No a session is
not a connection. The session,
the unit of work, it's
sort of a code pattern.
That's find out on Martin
Fowler's website. And a couple
of other places. Basically what
you're doing is building up
a list of all the
changes that you've made to
your entities. So you may
insert a person, change an
address, delete another person, and
then you flush that whole
session of work or that
whole unit of work down
to the database all at
once. So the connection is
only open when you're flushing.
Can I have multiple units
of work within a session,
Start a unit of work
by opening the session, do
some work, flush it, then
keep using the session and
flush it again. You don't
have to open a new
session each time. Okay. Sometimes
I get the impression that
Ann hibernate is hard and
I tried to sit down
and work with it yesterday.
And I found that there
were bits of it all
kind of spread all over
the web. You know, is
this an, I think, I
think I'm saying this as
a person who wants to
use it, like, it feels
like I have to work
to want to get excited
about using an hibernate. Is
that, that doesn't sound like
a technical limitation though. It
just seems like it's just
not fun to make websites
that are really have documentation
and to screenshots and download
all that kind of stuff.
What do you, what do
you think is that hibernate
hard? No, in hibernate, definitely
not hard, but like you
said, we are scattered all
across the web. It's sort
of a loose community of
projects. You know, we have
in hibernate core, we have
fluent in hibernate. There's the
conformed project. We have a
couple of contrib projects. Then
there's sharp architecture, which is
kind of using in hibernate
to build an entire web
app. So we are scattered
all across the web. You
know, that we have a
real problem with marketing in
hibernate. You know, we're all
programmers. We don't have designers,
we don't have marketers. We
don't have technical writers for
our project. It seems like
that's an open source problem.
I mean, ultimately like with
DAS blog, which is a
smaller, much less significant little
application, we had this guy,
Tom Watts, who was just
this amazing organizer, you know,
he wasn't a programmer, but
he, he runs the forums,
you know, to this day,
he's still in the forums.
He maintain the, the website
he paid for having a
website. You know, he, he
made it, he funneled, he
funneled all of the, all
of us idiot programmers that
were trying to put the
thing together into a cohesive
team. He effectively herded the
cats. Is that, is that
a challenge to do that?
Or do you think you'll
become that person for an
hibernate man? No, I wouldn't
say so. I don't think
anybody's really picked up that
role. You know, used to
be in hibernate was sort
of managed by this company
called J boss. So if
you actually go out to
Google right now and just
Google for in hibernate, the
first link is going to
take you to J boss.org,
which that hasn't been the
home of in hibernate for,
I don't know, a couple
of years now, the home
of, in hibernate on the
web is NH forge.org. We
have blogs, tons of people
posting on the blog. We
have a Wiki, we have
links to downloads all that
sort of stuff, but we
don't really have sort of
a centralized message out on
the web. Hi, this is
Scott. I just want to
remind you guys that there's
no show without a sponsor,
someone who's going to pay
for all this bandwidth. And
the more popular the show
becomes. The more important is
that we thank our sponsors
folks like Tellerik I wanna
let you guys know that
Tellerik has got a pretty
cool deal going between June 1st, 2010
and August 31st, 2010. Any interested listener,
just send an email to
podcast@telleriktlerik.com mentioned Hansel minutes and
they will reply and they'll
give you a special $50
off coupon code. So just
remember podcast at  dot
com mentioned Hansel minutes, $50
off. It goes until August 31st, 2010
and big thanks again for
the folks at Tellerik for
believing in our show and
for continuing to help pay
for our expenses. I went
to an hibernate.com. It looks
like a consulting company has
that, but they have been
kind enough to put links
to NH forge the source
SourceForge and that fluent and
irony. Maybe we could get
those guys to give up
that domain or make it
more tidy, but you're right.
I'm looking here. I see
Wikipedia. I see SourceForge the
CNH forge. Okay. But the
point is that even though
it's spread a PA around
a little bit, that's not
a reason for someone to
not use it, but I
think it might make people
more afraid just because it
a it's not like, you
know, subsonic.com boom download. Now,
you know what I mean?
Right. That's exactly right. You
know, if you want to
go to the one place
on the web for in
hibernate information, you should go
to  dot org and
we are working to consolidate
stuff there. We're bringing in
all of a whole bunch
of bloggers. We're adding people
to post on the wikis.
We're really making an effort
to consolidate things so that
that's not such a problem
anymore. So I'm visiting an
area. This is, this is
nice. Look at this NH
forge home blog, download groups
reference. This is, yeah, this
is nice. Yeah, this is
really cool. Yeah. So this
is a very nice, I
should have gone here yesterday.
I was running around on,
on SourceForge cause I assume
that's where things live and
I was having trouble finding
things there. So you now
you've got a nice reference
documentation for version two as
well. It's almost like a,
kind of a little mini
book here just to get
people started. Yeah. And we're
in the work we're in
the process of updating that
for . So what's new
and inherited three. What, what
are the kinds of things
that people can get excited
about and is NH three,
a good time for people
to jump in and try
and hibernate? Absolutely. You know,
we still have all of
the features from NH to,
you know, we still have
hibernate query language. We still
have the criteria API and
we still support SQL. You
know, we can do crazy
stuff with stored procedures and
all of that business. What
we've added, basically we've moved
from dotnet two Oh two.net
35. So we get all
of the goodness of Lambdas
and link and all of
that kind of stuff. So
like they've mentioned the locations
configuration, the code configuration, that's
all brand new in hibernate
three for the first time
ever. We have a real
actual in hibernate link provider
that was mostly written by
Steve strong from Metta about
300 unit tests behind that
it's rock solid. It's ready
to go. Wow. So this
is linked to and hibernate.
So like if I'm a
link to say, I use
linked to SQL myself a
lot and I'm just now
starting to move over to
entity framework. So the same
link that I'm using in
those two, I can use
an N hibernate and it'll
feel like home. Absolutely. Yeah.
To get to the eye
queryable. It's real easy. You
just import the in hibernate.link
namespace. And then you'll write
your link statement from P
in session dot query post
where p.author equals as Hanselman,
you know, just your standard
link. And I saw that
there's two there's tools around
there. There's there's tooling that
supports it. Like we said,
it is spread around a
little bit, but then again,
Microsoft spread around a little
bit. So there's like a
profile. Cause when you just
said you were describing a
link query, I was thinking
to myself, well, what SQL
is it making? Right. I
know I can look at
SQL profiler, but it doesn't
doesn't Oren have a, an
entity as an Oren, had
an N hibernate profile out
there. Yeah, that's exactly right.
He wrote an in hibernate
profiler. It's a great tool.
It is a commercial tool.
It's not open source. So
you do have to pay
for it. But if you're
working within hibernate, that's definitely
the way to go. It's
fully integrated. When your application
runs a SQL statement, it
will show up in, in
hibernate profile or it will
tell you if anything's wrong
with it, what's wrong with
it. It'll give you a
full stack trace. You can
double click on a stack
frame in the stack trace
and it will bounce you
back into that exact location
in visual studio. It's really
cool. Highly recommended. That's cool.
That's pretty integrated then. So
it sounds like if I
have, do we using an
hibernate in a professional sense,
I might want to buy
a couple of small products
from a couple of different
different vendors, right? But it
doesn't sound like it's going
to break the bank. No,
no. All of these are
very cheap and you don't
really need them. It just
makes it much easier to
work with, you know, but
it's not required for the
amateur that just wants to
try writing a blog, you
know, a blog engine behind
it. That's the way to
go. And if I need
help, is it just go,
you know, do I have
to go Google with bang
and figure that out or
who who's going to help
me if I'm kind of
all alone? Well, it depends
how far you want to
take that. We can answer
your questions on the Google
group. We have NH users
is the name of our
Google group. If you need
professional support, you can get
it through orange company, hibernating
rhinos. Hmm. So there's like
basically orange company is behind,
is behind this in the
sense of that at a
large enterprise could have backing
by. And that's cool. Yeah.
So you can get professional
support through hibernating rhinos with
Orrin or through, I met
Steve Strong's company. So two
different directions to go, you
know, and that's sort of,
you know, the way I
think about that, it's like
calling up Microsoft product support
and your ticket gets assigned
to Phil hack. If it's
an NBC issue, you know,
so you will get taken
care of What kind of
tooling is there is a,
is there a designer? Like
I think that Microsoft people
get, get accused of being
lame. We drag tables around
on, on design surfaces. And
you know, there's always that
constant does a visual designer
rot your brain, or should
you just do it on
notepad? You know, does syntax
coloring light watch your brain
does intelligence, Roger brain. You
said that you, you get
IntelliSense for the XML and
you get IntelliSense for the
flu, the fluent interface. So,
you know, you do get
helped along. Is there any
kind of a visual designer
or is there a product
that does visual design for
an hibernate? Well, in hibernate
core, we sort of made
a design decision upfront. It's
just, pocos, that's where we
start. That's where we stop.
Now. There's all sorts of
add ons to that. Like
you said, you know, you
can drop the schema into
your visual studio project and
you'll get IntelliSense and that's
just built into visual studio.
But on top of that,
there are some commercial products
out there with designers, there's
company called slice software. So
Y C E and they
have a tool called visual
in hibernate that lets you
do some dragging and dropping
and building stuff that way.
And there's also LLB L
gin pro by a guy
by the name of Franz
Burma. And he's actually really
big on the NH user's
group, helping people out. So
we really appreciate his contribution
back to in hibernate. Yeah.
LLB El gen is pretty
amazing because it not only
supports on hibernate, but also,
you know, entity framework, including
the new version as well
as like SQL. So you
can basically use his designer
for all of your projects
regardless. It's pretty neat stuff.
Yeah. Yeah. It's really great.
You know, one of the,
one of the new things
with in hibernate three, we've
sort of rebuilt our hibernate
query language on top of
the antler Lexar and parser.
Steve strong did a lot
of that workforce as well.
One of the things that
antler gives us, we can
sort of integrate that with
visual studio language services. So
there's a guy by the
name of Jose ramen, yellow,
who has written an actual
gallery, a visual studio gallery
code project called HQL add
in. So you'll go to
tools, extension manager, online gallery,
and then search for HQ,
all add in and you'll
get this great little tool
where you can create dot
HQL files and you get
full syntax checking, we'll send
tax coloring. And then he's
also going to be adding
IntelliSense in the next few
days or hibernate query language
queries. Wow. All of that
is instead of being a
separate third party tool, all
of that's going to be
integrated into visual studio now.
So it's interesting. You have
to kind of walk a
fine line. I mean, you've
got a bunch of different
projects that are all doing
a bunch of different things
and different versions. And that
in itself is a strength.
And as a core tenant,
the in hibernate core team
has said, pocos are our
bread and butter. That's what
we're going to do. We're
not going to start doing
drag and drop designers. We're
not going to even go
and do fluent and hibernate.
You know, it's a, it's
our core engine and we're
going to focus on being
the core engine. And then
you've got people kind of
orbiting around it and doing
all sorts of different stuff
that makes it a strong,
almost like its own open
source ecosystem. But then from
an onboarding perspective, it's challenging
because you know, I want
to use an hibernate three
alpha, do I have to
go get a special version
of the fluent down hibernate?
Will they be bundled together?
You know, where's the instant
and hibernate, get it all,
get all the useful stuff.
I guess that's probably in
your book, but the, you
know, the best practice in
a box. Yeah. And like
you mentioned before, it is
hurting cats. Yeah, exactly. I
think sometimes people use the
Microsoft product because if it's
out of the box it's,
it's, you know, mostly complete.
And what do you think
about when people say, well,
why didn't Microsoft just using
hibernate? Why did they write
any framework at all? What's,
what's your personal take on
that? You know, I think
it's just another alternative. I
think Microsoft at the time
probably wasn't quite as big
into open source. And so
they just kind of went
down their, their link road
and NAD framework is where
they ended up. And I
think it's a great product.
And you know, I think
we can both coexist. I
think that the, I mean,
I know that there are
people who think, I think
other, other, other ways, but
from, from my point of
view, if you're using whatever
you're using, if you're getting
the job done and you're
feeling good about your job
and you're doing it on
the CLR, then you're, you're
in the dotnet space and
good for you. I mean,
it really is that simple,
Right. You know, and at
the end of the day
in hibernate is just about
getting the job done. We
started with pocos and that's
where we stop. If that's
all you need, great use
us and we're ready to
go. If you need all
this extra third party stuff,
you know, we've got a
whole community ecosystem built around
us and you can pick
and choose the different Lego
bricks that you need to
use. Hmm. I love the
Lego metaphor I've been using
that lately. I was just
saying that like, not just
Microsoft, but open source in
general that the Legos are
the right size. Now, you
know, it's not like a
giant Lego BizTalk around SharePoint
and then a little tiny
Lego. It's just like this
tiny log for net, you
know, the, this, that everything
is about the right size
and that you can, the
idea that you can swap
things out and they are
appropriately sized is, is powerful.
Now I think we probably
said this earlier, but want
to make sure it was
clear? What are the databases
that in hibernate can talk
to? Well, of course we
support SQL server starting with
version seven all the way
up through 2008 SQL CE
Azure. Let's see, we support
Oracle starting with version eight,
my sequel DB to Informix
Sybase Firebird. Well, how do
you test all this? It's
a community. All of our,
I'm sorry. I'd like you
to think people are out
there testing and how many,
how many people are doing
this. This is amazing how
many people are doing that
and who sits down and
says, yeah, go get my
old SQL server seven version
and let's get that tested.
Who's that guy. Well, you
know, we don't probably test
every single version of SQL
server, but we do have
different dialects. So like we
have the SQL seven dialect
that sort of has all
of the SQL syntax for
Microsoft SQL server and then
any new syntax in version
2000, that's added on top
and we just subclass the
SQL seven dialect for SQL
2000. And so it just
builds on top of that.
So we have all these
unit tests, we run everything
for SQL server. And then
before we make a great
big release, they sort of
divvy up, okay, I'm going
to test Oracle. You go
test my SQL, you test
these on DB to go
test Informix, SQL Lite, et
cetera, et cetera. Exactly. It's
one of the great things
about having a, a huge
community behind the project. You
just make the call, you
just put the call out
and say, let's all push
behind this. Yeah. And actually
that call doesn't even go
into NHS users that even
just stays within the dev
list. You know, I mean,
there's probably a dozen committers
on it, hibernate alone, just
the core. How do you
coordinate that? Well, that's all
managed by Fabio mellow. He's
the in hibernate project leader
and it's just kind of
black magic. He just gets
it done. It's amazing. What
a really good leader will
do in that way. You
know, it's like, how do
you describe it? What you
just don't, but it works.
You know what I mean?
That's exactly right. You know,
he's very, one of the
things I've said about Fabio,
I can have a five
minute chat session with him
and I will have ideas
for open source projects and
hibernate ad-ons to keep me
busy for three months, just
from a little five minutes.
I am conversation. Wow. Is
he, is he working on
this full time and someone's
sponsoring him or is this,
does he have a regular
job? He's he's just got
a regular job. Just like
the rest of us. This
is all just out of
the kindness of his heart.
I tell ya, open source
is such a thankless job.
Yeah. One of the last
things that I wanted to
talk about was that last
week, the entity framework came
up with a new CTP
community technology preview. I call
it the magic unicorn edition
because it's got a lot
of really cool stuff. That
means I don't have to
make a database and it's
got a lot more conventions
and it seems to embrace
poco a lot more. And
I was just curious what
kinds of features that RN
and hibernate. So if someone's
is likes those features and
they want to compare the
two, the two products, what
can they look at and
then hibernate? Sure. Okay. Well,
like I said before, we
started with pocos and that's
where we stop with hibernate
core. So sort of the
code first poco design stuff,
that's just core in hibernate.
You get that straight out
of the box. If you
want to go with sort
of the attributes, you know,
all the data annotation stuff,
we have a contrib project
called in hibernate mapping attributes.
And so you go out
to NH contrib, download this
one, extra DLL and start
decorating attributes all over your
entities. You know, if you're
looking for sort of the
equivalent of the model builder,
you know, well, that would
be fluent in hibernate. You
know, you can do sort
of all of the code
mapping stuff through Flemington hibernate.
If you're looking for conventions,
well, fluent in hibernate has
an auto mapper. You basically
just pointed at your pocos
and it figures everything out.
The same thing with conform.
You follow a set of
conventions. You can point the
conform project at your pocos
and it will build all
of your mapping. Oh, that's
cool. Okay. So that's interesting.
So we've got three options.
Now we've got the XML
option, the fluent option and
the conventions one where we'll
build the conventions without you
seeing them we'll build the
mapper, rather that you're seeing
them based entirely on convention
and naming. Absolutely. And the
conformed project, especially all of
the conventions are pluggable. So
if you don't like the
one that comes out of
the box, you can swap
it or your own, Who
makes the database like do
you make the database and
who actually makes the schema
and creates a database and
puts it, you know, makes
the tables In hibernate. Four
comes with a little class
it's in the HBM to
EDL namespace that stands for
hibernate mapping to data definition,
language. Basically it looks at
your mapping. It reflects on
your pocos and it spits
out a SQL script. We're
building your database. You can
point it, give it a
connection and pointed at a
server and it will build
your database. And you're done.
You can also build it
by hand. If you have
a legacy database, you know,
you can, we have third
party tools that can sort
of reverse engineer that into
mappings and into pocos. You
can go from pocos to
mappings, to database from database
to mappings, to pocos any
which way, Third party tool.
Do you think that you'll
think that you guys will
support the new SQL server
compact edition? Do you think
you maybe already do because
it's you already do. That's
great. Well, cool. Well, I
hope that a lot of
people have had their, their
eyes opened by the fact
that this is out there.
And I know that choice
always makes a having choice
always makes choice difficult, but
I want people to have
both sides of the story.
And I always like to,
to point and hibernate is
really one of the dominant
open source communities kind of
like flagship products. I mean,
it's it's well run, well
thought of it's well tested.
It's a, it's a great,
it's a great learning tool.
I download the source yesterday.
I was actually using the
source for an hibernate to
test my new computer, to
see how fast I could
compile it on my machine.
It's a pretty big project.
Yeah. It's extremely large. It's
extremely large. There's a lot
going on there. And I
was able to build it
in 30 seconds. I felt
pretty good about that. And
hibernate is out there in
the real world. It's used
by big companies, small companies
and hibernate is going to
be used to run the
new channel nine website. I
just saw a video about
that this morning. That's pretty
cool. Congratulations. When does your
book and having any three
cookbook come out, it should
be out in late October,
early November around the same
time as the official in
hibernate three release. And like
we mentioned before in the
show that if you buy
in hibernate three cookbook from
PAC publishing, then they'll donate
a portion of the revenue
back to and hibernate plastic
as well. Thanks so much,
Jason gentler for sitting down
and chatting with me today
about and hibernate. Thanks a
lot, Scott. Great to be
here. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.